>> Scott Moss: Let's create some tests,
these are pretty boring.
We're going to create one
that is specific to Next.js.
All the other ones are just
straight up regular tests.
So let's create one specific to Next.js so
you can kind of get the vibe for that.
So we'll create a test for
the dashboard page, and
I think that'll give you
a hint on how this works.
So what we'll do is we'll go to dashboard,
we'll make a new folder in here.
I'm going to call it __test__,
you don't have to do this you can
just literally just make a test file.
But I'm going to do that and
I'm going to say page.test.tsx or
sorry, .ts.
And it's important you do page.test for
two reasons.
One, we only told it to pick up
things that have .test in it.
Two, if you don't put .test,
it's going to make a route [LAUGH] called
__test__ and it's going to go here and
think that's a page.
Okay, so let's get our imports in here and
we'll go step by step.
So we have some helpers here to
help us like render things and
then observe the screen.
These are the globals that I was talking
about, we don't actually have to import
this because I did globals too but
we're going to import it anyway.
Here's the page that we're going to test.
We pull this in because this page calls
this, we're going to mock it out.
It also calls get user so
I might just delete that because
I don't feel mocking that out.
And then just some types and
stuff to help us.
Cool, first thing is let's mock
out stuff specific to this test.
So we didn't add this to the global
because it's specific to this test so
we can grab these three.
>> Scott Moss: This thing's freaking
out because, why are you freaking out?
Did I set that up though,
in the config to do tsx though?
I did, okay, I did, I did nevermind tsx.
All right, so
we're mocking out the library
call to getIssues and getCurrentUser.
Even though we mocked out the link here,
I have one specific to this test
to mock the link out to do this.
And then we're mocking out the utils
call that I was using for like cn and
like I was using one of my format a time
so we're going to mock all that out.
>> Scott Moss: And then from here we can
just describe the test that we want to do
so in this case,
I'm going to say describe('dashboard').
And then what we want to do is before
each test or each assertion block,
or in this case, each "it", we want to clear
all the mocks, as in, like reset them.
So beforeEach,
we want to vi.clearAllMocks() and
then we want to start writing some tests.
So the first test is going to be it
renders the issues list when issues
are available.
So,
>> Scott Moss: I feel like I spelled,
I don't always I feel like I
always feel available wrong.
It's like such a weird word.
Cool and these can be async.
So we'll make this async.
>> Scott Moss: And then from there we're
going to mock out these issues because
remember, we mocked out the function,
so it's not going to do anything.
So let's grab these fake
issues here like that.
We need to tell the mock that, hey, when
you are called, return these fake issues.
So we can do that by calling,
hey, grab this mocked function
that we already mocked out.
And it's asynchronous so when it gets
resolved, resolve it with this value, so
this array of issues.
So we'll do that.
This was already mocked out.
We're now saying when it resolves cuz it's
a promise, return this array of issues.
And the most Next.js specific part in here
is just this part right here, which is and
I guess it's not even specific to Next.js,
it's just React Server components,
which is just this.
So if you want to render the component.
Well, technically,
React Server component is just a function,
it's not like a React component anymore.
It's literally just a function,
an asynchronous function so
you can just call it like a function.
This will render the component and
then from there we can actually
draw it on the screen,
which is like this or
even shorter you could just do this.
You can also wrap this in a suspense and
do some stuff there as well but
then you'll have to await every single
one of these but that's just annoying.
Cool, let's copy these assertions and
we'll run this test and
see if it actually does anything.
So I don't know why this thing is
saying that to be in the document.
I think my typescript
stuff's not set up right, but
pretty sure that's good we'll see.
Yeah so we're checking to see if pretty
much does the stuff that we have here that
we think is going to be are going
to show up on the page.
We have an issue with test Issue 1,
test Issue 2.
So we think that should
show up on the page.
We think these labels should show up on
the page because we gave them the same
labels here.
All the stuff that we think should
show on the page based off this data,
it should be there.
>> Student 1: One thing before we run,
I think the typo and
the vitest setup file name.
>> Scott Moss: Say that again.
>> Student 1: The vitest.setup.ts
I think it's looking for
not vite like V-I-T-E test.
>> Scott Moss: I mistyped it.
>> Student 1: I just think in your code.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, I did.
>> Student 1: Yeah, I think it's just.
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
let's try to test this and
see why that thing is messing up and
then use the npm test.
It did mess up because it said vitest.setup.ts
does not exist... import.
I may have forgot to install this.
Let me try to install this, let me see.
Pretty sure I installed that and
then vitest.setup.ts that
looks about right to me.
There we go and this time it passed.
So we can make sure this is working and
go in here I guess it's working now.
And we can say expect that to be on the
document and obviously that fails because
that's not on the document and
here's the actual document.
>> Scott Moss: Cool,
any questions on testing?
>> Student 2: Is there a big
difference between Vitest and
Jest or any other test runner?
>> Scott Moss: I don't know who started
it, if it was Jasmine or Mocha or
one of the OG testing frameworks.
And well, I guess they all
inherited from Ruby at some point.
I think they all came from Ruby but
as far as Syntax goes,
there is no JavaScript testing framework
that is gonna deviate from this syntax.
It's just not gonna do it.
So they all have the same syntax,
they all do the same things,
they just do them slightly differently.
So as far as the differences, sure,
there's definitely differences in how
you set it up, the things you import.
But the feel of it,
because they all use the exact same
syntax is pretty much the same thing.
You just got to find like what
is the Jasmine way to do this?
What is the Jest way to do this?
But Jest is the same way.
You set up some describe blocks,
you can do some beforeEach, you do
some mocking, it's all the same thing.
I just think the community
is backed Vitest.
It's faster, it's got more support and
it has better development at this point.
So yeah, but you can use Jest if you OG,
want to use Jest, go ahead.
Any questions?
>> Student 2: The testing
folder name __test,
should that be or can that be plural?
Someone's just asking if it's test or
tests plural.
>> Scott Moss: It could
be whatever you want,
it's whatever you put
in your configuration.
So for me, I'm just looking for
anything that has a .test or .spec in it.
So it doesn't even care about this folder,
it doesn't even see it by default,
if you don't configure it.
I think it does look in this test file for
specs.
But yeah,
you can call this whatever you want.
I just put this here because I know that
Next.js is going to pick up routes and
I want someone on my team.
When they see this,
I don't want them, for instance,
let's say we actually
had a route called test.
Okay, now what?
[LAUGH] This is a route, if I see this, I
know this is not a route, this is testing.
So that's why I do that and plural,
sure, you can make a plural if you want.